README.md, before:


# VM Control

A simple perl script (that has evolved from an even more simple bash script)
to manage a small fleet of virtual machines

## Usage

    sudo vmctl.pl {name} {start|stop}

where `name` is the name of an (already configured) vm with a config file something
like

```
id: 1
name: testVM
hda: /dev/mapper/vg_testVM_main
mac: 36:de:b1:d9:48:04
```

`start` creates a tap device (using `id` from the file to number the device), 
brings it up and adds it to an existing bridge (`br0` is assumed to exist).

Then the script runs qemu to start the vm, with a tcp serial port at 5900 + `id` * 2
and a qemu tcp monitor at 5901 + `id` * 2.

`stop` sends a `system_powerdown` message to qemu and waits for qemu to exit. 
Then it removes the tap device from the bridge, takes it down and deletes it.

## TODO:

* Check if the tap device has already been created
* Check if the machine is already running
* Add a CDROM if there is a `cdrom` stanza in the config file
* Move to `-device` instead of `-hda` for drives
* Add `create` mode, which will turn on vga (on the virtual hardware), sdl 
  (for display), and not daemonize (because thats incompatiable with display).

Commit message:

Add some optional config options

README.md, after:


# VM Control

A simple perl script (that has evolved from an even more simple bash script)
to manage a small fleet of virtual machines

## Usage

    sudo vmctl.pl {name} {start|stop}

where `name` is the name of an (already configured) vm with a config file something
like

```
id: 1
name: testVM
hda: /dev/mapper/vg_testVM_main
mac: 36:de:b1:d9:48:04
```

`start` creates a tap device (using `id` from the file to number the device), 
brings it up and adds it to an existing bridge (`br0` is assumed to exist).

Then the script runs qemu to start the vm, with a tcp serial port at 5900 + `id` * 2
and a qemu tcp monitor at 5901 + `id` * 2.

`stop` sends a `system_powerdown` message to qemu and waits for qemu to exit. 
Then it removes the tap device from the bridge, takes it down and deletes it.

## Config commands

### Required

`name` : (string) Name of the virtual machine

`id` : (number) Number of tap device to use, and seed for serial/monitor ports

`hda` : (string) Path to the block device to use as the hard disk for the machine

`mac` : (string) Hardware network address to assign to the machine

### Optional

`cpu` : (string) QEMU cpu hardware to use. Defaults to 'host'

`netdev` : (string) QEMU network device hardware to use. Defaults to 'virtio-net'

`shutdown_cmd` : (string) String to pass to the QEMU monitor to end the simulation.
Defaults to 'system_powerdown'

## TODO:

* Check if the tap device has already been created
* Check if the machine is already running
* Add a CDROM if there is a `cdrom` stanza in the config file
* Move to `-device` instead of `-hda` for drives
* Add `create` mode, which will turn on vga (on the virtual hardware), sdl 
  (for display), and not daemonize (because thats incompatiable with display).
